In this lesson, we will work on the sounds of the character: the sounds of walking, running and jumping.
Let's figure out how to play sounds linked to animation. Create an additional folder in the
sound directory , call it character. We'll need some SoundQues, let's get them ready.
The first asset is called SQ_FootstepsWalk.
This SoundQue will sound the sounds of the character's footsteps. Duplicate. We call the next SoundQue SQ_Run.
This asset will be played when the character runs. The next SoundQue is jump start. It will play
when the character jump animation starts and the last SoundQue - jump end. This asset will be played
when the character lands. Let's open all the assets right away to make it easier to drag and drop sounds.
Go to ExternalContent, to the sounds directory, open the footsteps folder.
This folder contains the voice acting of the character's steps. There are different sounds for different surfaces that the
character walks on. We will not define the surface for the steps.
In general, this is not difficult to implement. This is done in the same way as we did the impact effects. Let's play the sound of grass,
metal.
We will be using tile sounds.
As we can see, there are several different sounds for steps. We can add all
SoundWave data to our SoundQue and play it randomly. This will ensure that the sound of footsteps is not monotonous.
Add the random node. Add pins and connect all sounds to the random node.
You can also delete an unnecessary pin by right-clicking on it. Let's test it.
At each step of the character, a random sound will be selected.
This is how I added these sounds to the wrong SoundQue. Let's move them to Walk.
Moving on, open the animation editor. Select the run forward animation.
Sounds for animation are very easy to add. This is done in the same way as anim notify.
On any of the tracks, we can right-click,
select add notify from the menu and find play sound in the submenu. A special anim notify has been added to the track,
which has a property sound in the details panel. We choose our sound of footsteps.
If we move the slider in the timeline, we can immediately hear this sound. On the timeline, we
need to position the given anim notify at the moment the foot touches the ground. We do this
approximately by dragging anim notify to the position we need and press the spacebar to play it.
This sound needs to be added for the other leg as well. The foot lands on the
ground at the very end of the animation. Let's add an extra anim notify.
Selecting the sound asset for the steps.
Let's check how it sounds.
You can move it a little to the right.
So, you can add sounds on the timeline. This functionality is logical to use in blueprint. This is quite convenient,
plus a sound designer can easily do this and customize this anim notify with an accuracy of
hundredths of a second. I will now fast forward to add these sounds for other animations.
We have animations for running to the right, left and back. The logic for adding sounds will be exactly the same here.
The second animation is ready.
The third animation is ready.
And the last animation is also ready. Let's test how it works right away. The only thing is,
let's turn off our NPCs, otherwise there will be a cacophony now. Remove all the behavior tree logic.
And we start the game.
The first part is ready. Move on. It is necessary to add sounds for the running animation. They are located in the foley folder.
There are also several sounds. They have the text "run" in their names.
Add all sounds to SQ_FootstepsRun.
We also add a random node.
We will play these sounds when our character starts to run.
Let's set up the SoundQue for jumping right away. Sound files are also located in this foley directory.
We select three sounds, they will be played randomly when the character starts jumping.
Add jump start to SoundQue. Add the random node.
Checking.
For the character to land, there are different sounds for different surfaces.
By analogy with running, we will only use sounds for tile.
We select these assets, transfer them to the jump end.
All the necessary SoundQues are ready. Let's add them to our animations.
We start with a running animation. The asset is called RoadieRun_Fwd.
Added for running animation. Next, open the jump start asset.
Add a sound somewhere at the beginning when the feet start to lift off the ground.
Set SoundQue jump start and check.
And the last animation is the jump end. Let's add a sound at the very beginning of the timeline.
We select the appropriate SoundQue and check.
Everything is ready, let's test it in the game.
Let's go over, hold down shift.
Checking the jump.
This concludes the current lesson.